README.md, before:


---

# Graphene-Django-Subscriptions [![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/graphene-django-subscriptions.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/graphene-django-subscriptions)


This package adds support to Subscription's requests and its integration with websockets using Channels package.

## Installation

For installing graphene-django-subscriptions, just run this command in your shell:

```bash
pip install graphene-django-subscriptions
```

## Documentation:

### Extra functionalities (Subscriptions):
  1.  **Subscription**  (*Abstract class to define subscriptions to a DjangoSerializerMutation class*)
  2.  **GraphqlAPIDemultiplexer**  (*Custom WebSocket consumer subclass that handles demultiplexing streams*)


### **Subscriptions:**

This first approach to add Graphql subscriptions support with Channels in **graphene-django**, use **channels-api** package.

#### 1- Defining custom Subscriptions classes:

You must to have defined a DjangoSerializerMutation class for each model that you want to define a Subscription class:

```python
# app/graphql/subscriptions.py
import graphene
from graphene_django_extras.subscription import Subscription
from .mutations import UserMutation, GroupMutation


class UserSubscription(Subscription):
    class Meta:
        mutation_class = UserMutation
        stream = 'users'
        description = 'User Subscription'


class GroupSubscription(Subscription):
    class Meta:
        mutation_class = GroupMutation
        stream = 'groups'
        description = 'Group Subscription'

```

Add the subscriptions definitions into your app's schema:

```python
# app/graphql/schema.py
import graphene
from .subscriptions import UserSubscription, GroupSubscription


class Subscriptions(graphene.ObjectType):
    user_subscription = UserSubscription.Field()
    GroupSubscription = PersonSubscription.Field()
```

Add the app's schema into your project root schema:

```python
# schema.py
import graphene
import custom.app.route.graphql.schema


class RootQuery(custom.app.route.graphql.schema.Query, graphene.ObjectType):
    class Meta:
        description = 'The project root query definition'


class RootSubscription(custom.app.route.graphql.schema.Mutation, graphene.ObjectType):
    class Meta:
        description = 'The project root mutation definition'


class RootSubscription(custom.app.route.graphql.schema.Subscriptions, graphene.ObjectType):
    class Meta:
        description = 'The project root subscription definition'


schema = graphene.Schema(
    query=RootQuery,
    mutation=RootMutation,
    subscription=RootSubscription
)
```

#### 2- Defining Channels settings and custom routing config ( *For more information see Channels documentation* ):

We define app routing, as if they were app urls:

```python
# app/routing.py
from graphene_django_extras.subscriptions import GraphqlAPIDemultiplexer
from channels.routing import route_class
from .graphql.subscriptions import UserSubscription, GroupSubscription


class CustomAppDemultiplexer(GraphqlAPIDemultiplexer):
    consumers = {
      'users': UserSubscription.get_binding().consumer,
      'groups': GroupSubscription.get_binding().consumer
    }


app_routing = [
    route_class(CustomAppDemultiplexer)
]
```

We define project routing, as if they were project urls:

```python
# project/routing.py
from channels import include


project_routing = [
    include("custom.app.folder.routing.app_routing", path=r"^/custom_websocket_path"),
]

```

You should put into your INSTALLED_APPS the **channels** and **channels_api** modules and you
must to add your project's routing definition into the CHANNEL_LAYERS setting:

```python
# settings.py
...
INSTALLED_APPS = (
  'django.contrib.auth',
  'django.contrib.contenttypes',
  'django.contrib.sessions',
  'django.contrib.sites',
  ...
  'channels',
  'channels_api',

  'custom_app'
)

CHANNEL_LAYERS = {
  "default": {
    "BACKEND": "asgiref.inmemory.ChannelLayer",
    "ROUTING": "myproject.routing.project_routing",  # Our project routing
  },
}
...
```

#### 3- Subscription's examples:

In your WEB client you must define websocket connection to: *'ws://host:port/custom_websocket_path'*.
When the connection is established, the server return a websocket's message like this:
*{"channel_id": "GthKdsYVrK!WxRCdJQMPi", "connect": "success"}*, where you must store the **channel_id** value to later use in your graphql subscriptions request for subscribe or unsubscribe operations.

The graphql's subscription request accept five possible parameters:
  1.  **operation**: Operation to perform: subscribe or unsubscribe. (*required*)
  2.  **action**: Action to which you wish to subscribe: create, update, delete or all_actions. (*required*)
  3.  **channelId**: Identification of the connection by websocket. (*required*)
  4.  **id**: Object's ID field value that you wish to subscribe to. (*optional*)
  5.  **data**: Model's fields that you want to appear in the subscription notifications. (*optional*)

```js
subscription{
  userSubscription(
    action: UPDATE,
    operation: SUBSCRIBE,
    channelId: "GthKdsYVrK!WxRCdJQMPi",
    id: 5,
    data: [ID, USERNAME, FIRST_NAME, LAST_NAME, EMAIL, IS_SUPERUSER]
  ){
    ok
    error
    stream
  }
}
```

In this case, the subscription request sent return a websocket message to client like this:
*{"action": "update", "operation": "subscribe", "ok": true, "stream": "users", "error": null}*
and from that moment each time than the user with id=5 get modified, you will receive a message
through websocket's connection with the following format:

```js
{
  "stream": "users",
  "payload": {
    "action": "update",
    "model": "auth.user",
    "data": {
      "id": 5,
      "username": "meaghan90",
      "first_name": "Meaghan",
      "last_name": "Ackerman",
      "email": "meaghan@gmail.com",
      "is_superuser": false
    }
  }
}
```

For unsubscribe you must send a graphql request like this:

```js
subscription{
  userSubscription(
    action: UPDATE,
    operation: UNSUBSCRIBE,
    channelId: "GthKdsYVrK!WxRCdJQMPi",
    id: 5
  ){
    ok
    error
    stream
  }
}
```

**NOTE:** Each time than the graphql's server restart, you must to reestablish the websocket
connection and resend the graphql's subscription request with the new websocket connection id.


## Change Log:

#### v0.0.1:
    1. First commit.

Commit message:

Added mini web tool link

README.md, after:


---

# Graphene-Django-Subscriptions [![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/graphene-django-subscriptions.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/graphene-django-subscriptions)


This package adds support to Subscription's requests and its integration with websockets using Channels package.
You can use this mini web tool to test websocket notifications. It's intuitive and simple:
[graphene-django-subscriptions.tool.zip](https://github.com/eamigo86/graphene-django-subscriptions/files/1446866/graphene-django-subscriptions.tool.zip)

## Installation

For installing graphene-django-subscriptions, just run this command in your shell:

```bash
pip install graphene-django-subscriptions
```

## Documentation:

### Extra functionalities (Subscriptions):
  1.  **Subscription**  (*Abstract class to define subscriptions to a DjangoSerializerMutation class*)
  2.  **GraphqlAPIDemultiplexer**  (*Custom WebSocket consumer subclass that handles demultiplexing streams*)


### **Subscriptions:**

This first approach to add Graphql subscriptions support with Channels in **graphene-django**, use **channels-api** package.

#### 1- Defining custom Subscriptions classes:

You must to have defined a DjangoSerializerMutation class for each model that you want to define a Subscription class:

```python
# app/graphql/subscriptions.py
import graphene
from graphene_django_extras.subscription import Subscription
from .mutations import UserMutation, GroupMutation


class UserSubscription(Subscription):
    class Meta:
        mutation_class = UserMutation
        stream = 'users'
        description = 'User Subscription'


class GroupSubscription(Subscription):
    class Meta:
        mutation_class = GroupMutation
        stream = 'groups'
        description = 'Group Subscription'

```

Add the subscriptions definitions into your app's schema:

```python
# app/graphql/schema.py
import graphene
from .subscriptions import UserSubscription, GroupSubscription


class Subscriptions(graphene.ObjectType):
    user_subscription = UserSubscription.Field()
    GroupSubscription = PersonSubscription.Field()
```

Add the app's schema into your project root schema:

```python
# schema.py
import graphene
import custom.app.route.graphql.schema


class RootQuery(custom.app.route.graphql.schema.Query, graphene.ObjectType):
    class Meta:
        description = 'The project root query definition'


class RootSubscription(custom.app.route.graphql.schema.Mutation, graphene.ObjectType):
    class Meta:
        description = 'The project root mutation definition'


class RootSubscription(custom.app.route.graphql.schema.Subscriptions, graphene.ObjectType):
    class Meta:
        description = 'The project root subscription definition'


schema = graphene.Schema(
    query=RootQuery,
    mutation=RootMutation,
    subscription=RootSubscription
)
```

#### 2- Defining Channels settings and custom routing config ( *For more information see Channels documentation* ):

We define app routing, as if they were app urls:

```python
# app/routing.py
from graphene_django_extras.subscriptions import GraphqlAPIDemultiplexer
from channels.routing import route_class
from .graphql.subscriptions import UserSubscription, GroupSubscription


class CustomAppDemultiplexer(GraphqlAPIDemultiplexer):
    consumers = {
      'users': UserSubscription.get_binding().consumer,
      'groups': GroupSubscription.get_binding().consumer
    }


app_routing = [
    route_class(CustomAppDemultiplexer)
]
```

We define project routing, as if they were project urls:

```python
# project/routing.py
from channels import include


project_routing = [
    include("custom.app.folder.routing.app_routing", path=r"^/custom_websocket_path"),
]

```

You should put into your INSTALLED_APPS the **channels** and **channels_api** modules and you
must to add your project's routing definition into the CHANNEL_LAYERS setting:

```python
# settings.py
...
INSTALLED_APPS = (
  'django.contrib.auth',
  'django.contrib.contenttypes',
  'django.contrib.sessions',
  'django.contrib.sites',
  ...
  'channels',
  'channels_api',

  'custom_app'
)

CHANNEL_LAYERS = {
  "default": {
    "BACKEND": "asgiref.inmemory.ChannelLayer",
    "ROUTING": "myproject.routing.project_routing",  # Our project routing
  },
}
...
```

#### 3- Subscription's examples:

In your WEB client you must define websocket connection to: *'ws://host:port/custom_websocket_path'*.
When the connection is established, the server return a websocket's message like this:
*{"channel_id": "GthKdsYVrK!WxRCdJQMPi", "connect": "success"}*, where you must store the **channel_id** value to later use in your graphql subscriptions request for subscribe or unsubscribe operations.

The graphql's subscription request accept five possible parameters:
  1.  **operation**: Operation to perform: subscribe or unsubscribe. (*required*)
  2.  **action**: Action to which you wish to subscribe: create, update, delete or all_actions. (*required*)
  3.  **channelId**: Identification of the connection by websocket. (*required*)
  4.  **id**: Object's ID field value that you wish to subscribe to. (*optional*)
  5.  **data**: Model's fields that you want to appear in the subscription notifications. (*optional*)

```js
subscription{
  userSubscription(
    action: UPDATE,
    operation: SUBSCRIBE,
    channelId: "GthKdsYVrK!WxRCdJQMPi",
    id: 5,
    data: [ID, USERNAME, FIRST_NAME, LAST_NAME, EMAIL, IS_SUPERUSER]
  ){
    ok
    error
    stream
  }
}
```

In this case, the subscription request sent return a websocket message to client like this:
*{"action": "update", "operation": "subscribe", "ok": true, "stream": "users", "error": null}*
and from that moment each time than the user with id=5 get modified, you will receive a message
through websocket's connection with the following format:

```js
{
  "stream": "users",
  "payload": {
    "action": "update",
    "model": "auth.user",
    "data": {
      "id": 5,
      "username": "meaghan90",
      "first_name": "Meaghan",
      "last_name": "Ackerman",
      "email": "meaghan@gmail.com",
      "is_superuser": false
    }
  }
}
```

For unsubscribe you must send a graphql request like this:

```js
subscription{
  userSubscription(
    action: UPDATE,
    operation: UNSUBSCRIBE,
    channelId: "GthKdsYVrK!WxRCdJQMPi",
    id: 5
  ){
    ok
    error
    stream
  }
}
```

**NOTE:** Each time than the graphql's server restart, you must to reestablish the websocket
connection and resend the graphql's subscription request with the new websocket connection id.


## Change Log:

#### v0.0.1:
    1. First commit.
